---
layout: news
post-type: announcement
title: "vmtk 1.3 has been released!"
---

vmtk 1.3 has been released! This release includes binaries for **all platforms**.<br/>

We currently distribute vmtk as <a href="http://mrtopf.de/blog/en/a-small-introduction-to-python-eggs/" target="_blank">python egg</a> file for Linux. For Windows7/8 we provide a windows installer (.exe). For Mac OSX we provide bynary package through <a href="http://www.brew.sh" target="_blank">homebrew</a> See the [Download]({{ site.baseurl }}/download/) page for details. <br/>


TODO

+ Added support for VTK6 and VTK7


OLD


New vmtk scripts added in this release:

+ vmtkimagemorphology: a script used to apply binary or grayscale morphology filter to the input image.
+ vmtkimageotsuthresholds: a script used to automatically label an image using multiple Otsu thresholding.
+ vmtksurfacemassproperties: a script for clipping using polyball and tube functions.
+ vmtksurfacearrayoperation: a script that allow curvature-dependent density meshing.
+ vmtksurfacebooleanoperation: a script used to perform a boolean operation between two surfaces.
+ vmtksurfaceregiondrawing: a script used to  draw a closed contour on a surface and generate a distance field on the surface.
+ vmtksurfacecurvature: a script that allow to compute curvature of an input surface, optionally reporting results back to a reference surface (by point id).
+ vmtksurfacepolyballevaluation: a script used to evaluate the polyball function on the vertices of a surface.
+ vmtksurfaceregiondrawing: a script that allow to draw a closed contour on a surface and generate a distance field on the surface.
+ vmtkcenterlineinterpolation : a script used to smooth centerlines with a moving average.
+ vmtkmesharrayoperation: a script that allow to perform an operation between arrays of two meshes and store result in the first mesh.
+ vmtkmeshconnectivity: a script used to extract the largest connected region or the closest point-connected region from a mesh.
+ vmtkmeshpolyballevaluation: a script used to evaluate the polyball function on the vertices of a mesh.
+ vmtkmeshvolume: a script that allow to computes the volume of a mesh.
+ vmtkmeshcutter: a script used to generate a slice from a mesh, contributed by Simone Manini, Orobix Srl.
+ vmtkmeshextractpointdata:a script used to extract  extract the magnitude value (and its components) of an array for a point id of a mesh, contributed by Simone Manini, Orobix Srl.
+ vmtkmeshmergetimesteps: a script used to create a mesh file which will contains all the data relative to the velocity components for each timestep we want to generate traces, contributed by Simone Manini, Orobix Srl.
+ vmtkparticletracer: a script used to generate traces (VtkPolydata) from a velocity vector field, contributed by Simone Manini, Orobix Srl. Check how it works on the [particle tracing tutorial]({{ site.baseurl }}/tutorials/ParticleTracing.html)
+ vmtkpathlineanimator: a script used to animate the traces previously generated, contributed by Simone Manini, Orobix Srl. Check how it works on the [particle tracing tutorial]({{ site.baseurl }}/tutorials/ParticleTracing.html)
+ Thanks to Martin Sandve Alnaes from Simula, Norway for contributing improvements to capping. Now we can use a mix of methods for different boundaries without losing boundary markers for subsequent meshing.
+ There is a new algorithm which allows to generate multiple boundary layers of different thickness. Check how it works on the [mesh generation tutorial]({{ site.baseurl }}/tutorials/MeshGeneration.html).


<!--break-->
